# Learning VAA

This is the source code corresponding to the journal article

>  Guillermo Romero Moreno, Javier Padilla & Enrique Chueca (2020) **Learning VAA: A new method for matching users to parties in voting advice applications**, Journal of Elections, Public Opinion and Parties, DOI: 10.1080/17457289.2020.1760282

It allows to build a Learning VAA, which is a Voting Advice Application that self-tunes its comparison parameters to give enhanced recommendations. This self-tuning is based on previous users' answers to the questionaire.

The code also allows to replicate the figures and tables shown in the paper.

## Requirements
The code is implemented in python 3.7 and requires the following packages:

*matplotlib 3.0.2*

*numpy 1.15.4*

*pandas 0.24.1*

*scikit-learn 0.20.2*

*theano 1.0.3*

## Outline
- The tables and figures of the paper are in the `tables` and `plots` folders, respectively.
- These were generated by running the script `results_paper.py` with pre-trained models. These models are saved in the folder `models`.
- The models were trained by running the script `algorithm.py`. New models can be trained by rerunning such script.
- The models are defined in the file `model.py`.
- The data upon which the models are trained are contained in the folder `data`.

## Datasets
We have performed our experiments on the data from two different VAAs: the EUVox2014, a VAA released for the 2014 European Elections; and aquienvoto.org, a national VAA released for the 2019 Spanish elections.

### EUVox2014
> Mendez, F. University of Zürich. (2018). EUvox2014: Voting Advice Application data for the 2014 European Parliament elections (Version: 1.0.0). , DOI: https://doi.org/10.7802/1750, url: https://doi.org/10.7802/1750.

License: [Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-SA 4.0)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/)

### Aquienvoto
Coming...

